In the last lecture we have been talking about Viola Jones algorithm and how to detect a human face
on an image.
And we have come to the conclusion that the algorithm is going to look for the most relevant features
such as the eyes so left side right-I nose lips forehead eyebrows and something like this.
So these are the most relevant features as far as human faces are concerned.
And the good question is how to detect these features.
And the answer is Haar wavelets or heart features so hard wavelet is a sequence of rescaled square shaped
functions.
It is very very similar to Fourier analyzes it was proposed by a Hungarian mathematician of freight
car in 19:9 by the way these features are very very similar to convolutional caramelised.
So basically this is the theory behind convolutional now where all the networks that read the map of
these cardinals the most relevant features can be detected.
So the approach is approximately the same Haar features are the relevant features for phase detection.
We are going to assign a hard feature to every single important feature on a human face.
OK so for example there are edge features and line features.
So what does it mean exactly that for example for edge features there are white boxes and black pixels.
OK.
Of course in real images like this there's no completely white or completely black pixels because it
is a grayscale image every single pixel has the value from 0 to two hundred and fifty five.
So there's no completely white and completely black images.
But let's consider the ideal case where there's a white region of pixels and black region of pixels.
OK there's a horizontal version and the vertical version.
But as you can see it is approximately the same in the sense that it is going to detect edges.
So let's try to search for edges as far as this image is concerned as you can see for example the eyebrow
contains darker pixels and the forehead right above the eyebrow contains brighter pixels.
OK so this is very very similar to this edge feature.
Brighter pixels darker pixels.
OK we can use line features that can detect lines quite effectively.
So for example we can have brighter pixels than darker pixels than brighter pixels.
Again this is the vertical version.
This is the horizontal version by the way the opposite can happen.
So instead of white black white we can deal with the black white black.
So darker pixels brighter pixels and darker pixels again for example as far as this image is concerned
you can see that these are dark pixels than brighter pixels than dark pixels again.
So it is very very similar to line features black pixels white pixels black pixels.
OK then we have the nose as you can see this region of the nose contains brighter pixels and these regions
right next to the nose contains darker pixels so black white black again.
So we are able to assign hard features to the most relevant features on the human face.
And why is it important.
Because the algorithm is going to detect human faces based on the most relevant features eyes eyebrows
nose lips and so on.
So this is why car features are extremely important and extremely powerful method for detecting the
most relevant features.
OK lets talk a bit about the concrete computation.
So we are able to assign a pixel intensity to every single pixel.
If we are dealing with grayscale images these values are within the range 0 and 255 in this case we
are going to represent white pixels with 0 and the black boxes with 1.
So these are the pixel intensities.
OK so this is the ideal Haar feature big so intense that is when we are dealing with the white box and
the black boxes exclusively of course in real life Canarios these values are not zeros and ones exclusively
because we are dealing with grayscale images but something like this is so 0.1 is very bright.
So 0.3 is a bit darker 0.6 is even darker and you can see 0.9 is almost black.
OK so we can detect that these are brighter pixels these are darker pixels.
So what do we have to do.
Rioli Jones algorithm is going to compare how close the various Canario is to the ideal case.
So somehow we have to compare these pixel intensities read these pixel intensities.
So we just have to sum up the white big intensities.
So let's sum up these values and calculate the average Let's calculate the sum of the black boxes and
calculate the average and the data which is the difference of the dark intensity is minus the white
intensity.
So as you can see the eye is the pixel intensity of a given pixel.
OK we just have to sum them up as far as Dot pixels are concerned.
So 0.6 0.8 plus 0.8 plus 0.6.
So we just have to sum these numbers up and we have to calculate the average.
So that's why we have to multiply it by one divided by and where n is the number of pixels in the given
region.
OK in this case we had a two values of a minus the average of the brighter pixel intensities.
What about this data value for the ideal higher feature.
We just have to calculate the average of the dark region.
OK we just have to sum up ones and divide it by 8.
So the average will be one here for the brighter pixels the average will be 0.
So what.
Minus Zero is 1.
So the data value is going to be one of four.
The ideal feature what about this real life scenario we just have to calculate the dark pixel intensities
white pixel intensities.
So that's why 0 that 74 is the average of the dark pixels minus 0.18 which is the average of the brighter
pixels.
It is going to be 0 0 0 or 56.
So the closer the value to on the more likely we have found a hard feature and because we will never
get zeros or ones because we are dealing with real images.
So if you take a look at this image there is no zero or a one pixel intensity because there is no completely
white and completely black pixels.
OK maybe here.
These are approximately black boxes.
But anyways usually we are dealing with values like this.
And the closer the value to on the more likely we have found the haar feature.
OK so what do we have to do.
We just have to calculate these data.
And even the data is very very close to one.
We can't come to the conclusion that we have found a match in the sense that we have found a given Haar
feature.
So for example we have found and I grow we have found a nose.
We have found our lips and so on.
So this is how we are able to detect the most relevant features on a given image.
OK in the next lecture we are going to talk about how to boost these calculations because as you can
see we have to sum up the values within a rectangle.
So maybe we can come up with a smarter algorithm in order to make that approach as fast as possible.
Thanks for watching.